This is the MamMark tinyos 2 tree.

MamMark is an advance low power, sensor based, animal environmental
tracking device.  Originally it was designed for marine mammals (mammal
marker, mammark) but is no longer limited to those environments.

The core os is based on TinyOS 2.  Changes to the core for the MM
software load are held on the mm_core branch.

See doc/00_README for installing a complete development environment.
Also see:  (doc directory) 01_Platforms, Notes, Status.txt, and ToDo.


Platform revisions:

mm3:	msp430f1611 (non-production, prototype only)
mm4:	msp430f2618 (non-production, prototype only)
mm5:	msp430f5438a (production and prototype)


Main repositories are held at github.com as tinyprod/prod and MamMark/mm.
Working development versions of the T2 core can be referenced as
tp-freeforall/prod.   TinyProd/prod is intended to be a more stable, less
volatile flavor.

github.com:tinyprod/prod(mm_core) contains the main T2 code and includes needed
modifications to support the MM platforms.   Prod tracks the mainline T2
SVN trunk.  The branch mm_core tracks changes to the t2 core needed for
the mm software load.

github:MamMark/mm contains the majority of the MM tracking code including various
device drivers for mass storage (SD), GPS,  and sensor drivers.

You need working copies of both repos to build code for the mm5 platform.
github:tp-freeforall/prod(mm_core) and github:MamMark/mm(master) are the
repositories needed for the build.  See doc/00_README for instruction on
how to set up a development environment and detailed instructions on
obtaining the source code.


Note: As of 20110722, the mm5 is a work in progress.   We are also
transitioning to the new tinyos 2 msp430 core using the TinyProd (TinyOS
Production) code base.  The mm5 platform is based on this new core.

As of 20110722, the mm4 core (mm_core, T2 svn trunk mods) is based on a
snapshot of the T2 svn trunk maintained in a private git repository hosted
on hinrg (cs.jhu.edu, John Hopkins University).  It is unclear whether the
mm4 platform will be ported (probably, but hasn't been done yet) to the new
msp430 core.
