README for the tmp1x2 Driver

The tmp102 and tmp112 temperature sensor chips are very similar and this
driver supports both.  The tmp112 has an extended range.

Power can be handled explicitly or can be controlled by a resource arbiter.
An arbiter protects the underlying I2C bus and provides automatic power
control for the susbystem.  H/W interface code provided by the platform is
responsible for instantiating each tmp sensor port as well as handling
power on and off.

When using an arbiter,  Resource.request is called.  This controls turning
on power to the bus.  When the Resource.granted is signalled, power has been
turned on.  The h/w interface needs to handle any timing issues to allow for
power stabilization.  When all clients of the arbiter have been released,
the arbiter will power down the bus.

Once granted, we read 16 bits from register 0 to get the temperature.
Afterwards we shut the sensor down (via SD) to minimize power until the bus
is turned off again.

Explicit power control is handled directly by the h/w interface which also
is responsible for instantiating individual tmp ports.  SimpleSensor and
TmpHardware have provisions for looking at h/w pwr state as well as turning
on and off.


From the tmp102/tmp112 datasheet:

TMP sensors need 26 to 35 ms to do a conversion and this is true from when
power is first brought up.  Until the first conversion occurs, the sensor
will return 0 deg C.  This has ramifications anytime power is manipulated.

Depending on the tmp102 configuration, the first 12 or 13 bits of the 16
bits will contain a temperature value in Celsius.  One LSB corresponds to
0.0625 degrees, which is 1/16 degree.

In 12 bit mode, the first byte contains a whole number of degrees and
the first four bits of the second byte contain a fractional degree.
To round off to whole degrees:  look at the four bits containing the fraction
and add one if they are greater than equal to 8.

Negative degree values are provided in twos complement form.

It should be possible to compress 16 bit temperature words to 8 bits when
only accuracy to 1/2 degree is needed.
